Joins two MAFs files based on a tree and one common reference genome shared
between the two MAFs.

Let A be a MAF file containing a tree for each MAF block.  We define the
following properties for A.

Let a be a MAF block in A. Let T(a) be the 'block tree' for a. T(a) is
composed of 'leaf nodes', with no descendants and 'internal nodes', which have
1 or more descendants. The root node of T(a) is the unique most ancestral node
of the tree. For each node in T(a) there is a corresponding label in the tree
and row in the MAF block.  For each node in T(a) except the root node, there
is an associated ancestral branch, this branch must be labelled with an
associated branch length.

Each node in T(a) also has an associated 'species' label. Let T'(A) be the
'species tree' associated with the genomes in A.  We call the nodes in T'(A)
'species nodes', reusing the same terminology as with the MAF block trees.
The tree T(a) for any a in A may 'disagree' with T'(A), due to duplication,
loss and incomplete lineage sorting, however if x is the root species node of
T'(A) then for any node n with species label x in any tree T(a), n must be a
root node, i.e. no coalescence can occur that is more ancestral than the
coalesence of the root species.

A MAF file with the above properties is called 'tree normal'. Again let A be a
tree normal MAF file.  Let i represent a column in a MAF block a in A.  Let
F(i) be the set of sequence positions in i (i.e. excluding gaps).  Let T''(i)
be the tree for column i, which is an induced subtree of T(a) excluding nodes
that are gapped in the alignment.  Each node in T''(i) therefore has an
associated sequence position in F(i).  Let S(A) be the species in T'(A).

Let i and j now represent two columns from two different MAF files. i and j
can be 'joined' if the intersection of F(i) and F(j) is non-empty to form a
larger alignment column k of sequence positions that are all derived from a
common ancestor.  The join to form a column k is 'simple' if T''(k) is a tree
composed of T''(i) and T''(j) merged at a single common node (this needs more
explanation).  A 'complete join' of two tree normal MAF files is a third tree
normal file whose columns contain the 'closure' (wrong word) of joins of the
columns of A and B.

Let A and B be two tree normal MAF files. We say that A and B are 'compatible'
iff (1) the intersection of S(A) and S(B) is { x } (so x is the unique shared
species), and (2) x is the root of either or both of T(A) and T(B).

Theorem 1:  For two compatible tree normal MAF files there exists a (unique) 
complete join of A and B for which all joins are simple.

mafJoin performs a complete join on two compatible tree normal MAF files.
